# Vaccine-Distribution-System---Database
The government of the province is implementing a program that manages vaccine distribution, monitors the pediatric and adult immunization levels and issues alerts when an emerging epidemic treat is detected. MH is building a dedicated an information system that can handle immunization records as well as vaccine distribution. MH hired your team to build their new information system. Your team must design and implement a new data storage solution (to be implemented using a relational DBMS) that meets the MH’s informational requirements and supports the functionality outlined below.

Immunization providers that administer vaccines covered by the provincial health insurance plan receive the vaccines they will administer from the ministry. The MH must maintain accurate inventory records to keep track of the vaccines it procures from manufacturers and then distributes to providers. For each lot of vaccine, in addition to the type of vaccine in the lot, quantity of doses and expiration date, the MH also needs to record the supplier of the lot, along with information about them such as company name and address. For each manufacturer, the MH wants to also store the contact information of at least one manufacturer employee, their name, position, phone number and email, in case the lot has quality issues that need to be followed up on. In addition to this, the MH also maintains up to date information about each vaccine, including their description, formula, side effects, known interactions with other medication. The MH also needs to store information about each vaccine provider (hospitals, pharmacies, private clinics, university health centres, walk-in centres, etc.), and the supplies they received. For each provider, the MH wants to record their name, address, along with contact information for a person from that organization (i.e., the person’s name, position with the organization, phone number and email) who it can keep informed about the dispatch of new vaccine shipments and other relevant information. The MH assigns one of its employees to serves as the point of contact for each provider. The fulfillment of a vaccine shipment to a provider is personally overseen by that provider’s MH point of contact. A point of contact can serve multiple providers.

Each shipment that the MH sends to a provider may include several different types of vaccines. For each shipment, MH needs to store, and be able to make available, the date of the shipment as well as how many doses of which type of vaccine were delivered and what vaccine lots the doses of each vaccine type where from.

In order to serve as an immunization registry, the MH’s system also needs to help collect information about each vaccination performed by a provider, including how many doses the person received, as some vaccines are multi-dose, and when the person received their first, and subsequent shots (for multi-dose vaccines). 

The system must record, and be able to make available, information about vaccinations that are covered by the ministry, including the vaccinated person’s name, SIN, and address, the date of the immunization, the type of vaccine used as well as the lot the vaccine belonged to. For each reported immunization the MH needs to be able to help identify the provider who performed the vaccination and submitted the record. In addition to immunization records, every vaccination provider is required to report any serious adverse reactions, such as anaphylactic shocks, experienced by a person who was vaccinated by the provider. Besides information identifying the person who experienced the adverse effect, the report must also contain information about the type of vaccine used and the vaccine lot the vaccine dose belonged to. Your database design should also support assigning of a MH employee to handle that report. Only doctors employed by the MH can handle adverse reaction reports.

Providers must also report any quality issues they encountered while using vaccines it received from the MH. MH has various employees, administrative personnel, logistics and procurement specialists, as well as doctors and scientists. The system must be able to store for each employee their name, address, position, status and email address, and assign to each of them a unique employee ID. MH doctors are the only type of MH employee who can handle adverse effects reports. MH scientists are the only employees who can be tasked with testing samples from vaccine lots. The system must be able to enforce that only doctors are assigned to follow up on the adverse effects reports, only scientists are assigned to perform vaccine tests and only people with administrative, logistics or procurement roles can be assigned as points-of-contact for providers. The system should allow for only one doctor to be assigned to follow up on a report, and only one
scientist to be assigned to test a vaccine lot.

For each vaccine sample test performed by a scientist the system should keep information about the vaccine lot tested, the date the test was performed, the type of test performed, the result of the test and the MH scientist who performed the test. The system must also allow MH to identify the doctors who were assigned to follow up on severe adverse reaction reports.

